We, your humble servants, stand before the Buddha, our compassionate Father, who,
from countless
eons ago, has suffered and endured immense hardship, yet still finds it incredibly difficult to attain
enlightenment. We humbly beseech the Buddha, our benevolent Father, to support all those who, today, have the karmic affinity to offer flowers and make offerings to the relics of the Buddha's golden body, so that they may, little by little, develop
wisdom and enlightenment, thus
having the
opportunity to escape this cycle of suffering and misery.
[Music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Respectfully, to the entire assembly, the relics of the
Buddha are the crystallization of merit accumulated over
three countless eons of practicing Bodhisattva deeds. The golden
body of the relics is formed
from the blood, bones, flesh, and possibly even the
teeth of the Buddha. When the Buddha
entered Nirvana, he left behind many
relics, which were distributed from the heavens to
even the dragon kings. He left behind
hair relics, bone relics, tooth relics, and
nail relics—so many relics!
These relics are the very body of the Buddha, dear fellow practitioners.
Therefore, who is it that...  Seeing and paying homage to
relics is the same as paying homage to the
Buddha, because relics are from the Buddha's body.
Therefore, paying homage to the
Buddha's relics is equivalent to paying homage to the Buddha.
Those with Bodhicitta (the aspiration for enlightenment)
understand that they are paying homage to the
Buddha's merits accumulated over three countless eons.
Those who offer and make offerings to the
Buddha's relics with a fully enlightened mind
understand that the Buddha, with his compassion, made a
vow over three countless eons to practice Bodhicitta,
saving sentient beings from suffering,
ultimately accumulating merits to achieve
Supreme Enlightenment, attaining the Dharma, and
transmitting the Dharma to alleviate suffering.
If we are enlightened in this way, and we make
offerings with a calm and tranquil mind, the
blessings will be immeasurable. With such a mind, no matter how much evil karma we have, it will surely
be eradicated.
We will then develop Bodhicitta, abide in Bodhicitta, and cultivate the path to the
supreme enlightenment. This is the Buddha's teaching.
If those who are
enlightened see and appreciate the Buddha's merits in this way, they will be deeply moved.
The merit of offering to the relics of the Buddha brings
immeasurable and inconceivable blessings. Therefore, when
we go, the mind of the practitioner tells
us to go slowly, step by step, mindfully
thinking of the
Buddha's merits. When we
make the offering, our minds will be filled with
blessings. Although we are very slow, the mind of the practitioner thinks that we will still reach our destination with a mindful mind, without noise or
pushing.
We will just go slowly like this, and
we will receive blessings. Especially,
as disciples of the Buddha, when we remember the
Buddha's merits, everything in
this world will prosper and receive blessings. The
Buddha taught this: Remember the Buddha,
remember the Dharma, remember the Sangha. If we remember the Buddha with a
fully enlightened mind,
whatever evil we encounter, we will eliminate it.
Even if we encounter a tiger,
whatever evil we encounter in
this life, with the enlightenment of the
Buddha's merits,
we will avoid it.  So,
we are all freed from fear, even
those who are harassed by demons or those who
travel long and dangerous journeys. No matter how
afraid we are, when we turn
to the Buddha's grace,
those fears immediately disappear. That's very
great. Dear fellow practitioners, we must still rely on the Buddha, we
must still contemplate the Buddha's grace to
gain the steadfastness to overcome
all obstacles. We must practice
until our minds are pure, until
we are certain, until we have contemplated
many dharmas, then we begin to
contemplate the Dharma. First and foremost, the Buddha
is our guide, dear fellow practitioners. We must contemplate the
Buddha's grace so that we can overcome
all obstacles and diligently
practice. Even if we have
evil karma or misfortunes, contemplating the
Buddha's grace will support us in all worldly matters. It's
not just about
reciting "Namo Tathagata, the Buddha, the Righteous One," but
we must
truly see the Buddha's grace towards
us to truly understand it.  The Buddha's virtue
towards us is simply
shared in this way. Dear fellow
practitioners, please go home and
contemplate this more. The more
we contemplate this, the deeper our gratitude to the Buddha will become.
If the world were filled with treasures,
and we lived a lifetime
just eating and playing without
doing anything, a hundred lifetimes of
just eating and playing without doing anything, that
much wealth is not equal to a single thought of
understanding karma. Why did the
Buddha teach this? Because even if those treasures were given to
us to eat,
we couldn't eat them. If we
do evil, we suffer the consequences: illness,
sickness, inability to eat,
premature death, right, teacher? Do you agree?
Only when
we awaken to the Buddha's teachings, understand karma,
abandon evil, and do good, will the karmic consequences of that good work
allow us to
fully enjoy the blessings of good deeds.
We will never suffer, and
we will completely avoid the negative
consequences of evil because we do not do evil, and even if we accumulate
wealth...  In this world,
people give us things. They say
we can live off this wealth for a thousand lifetimes,
but if we do evil in
this lifetime, after this lifetime we will be reborn
into the three evil realms for thousands of lifetimes. Will
we be able to take, hold onto, or use
that wealth and property? We won't be able to keep it, we won't be able to
use it, right, dear fellow practitioners?
Therefore, the Buddha's teachings are the
most precious, more precious than all the treasures in
this world. Those with a pure mind often
don't use the phrase "the Buddha's teachings are
more precious than treasures in this world." Instead, they
use the term "treasures in this world," which is
not a unit to compare with the Buddha's teachings. They
cannot be on the same level
or be of the same kind for
comparison, because the Buddha's teachings are
priceless, and that is precisely where their pricelessness lies. If
we awaken to the Buddha's teachings,
awaken to the law of cause and effect—it's that simple—
then we have abandoned evil, done
good, and we will not suffer the consequences of evil.
That is the greatest happiness.
We have this understanding
because the Buddha, in three countless eons,  Only through
practice can one find such a Dharma, my
esteemed friends. It's not simple.
Today, when we
open the video, listen, and
read the sutra, we see that
we know so easily the
wealth that the Buddha gave us. We
obtain it so easily. We are the
inheritors, inheriting this wealth,
this so-called dowry, so easily.
But the Buddha took
three countless eons to create this wealth, my esteemed friends. To create this wealth, we, his children,
lack wisdom and do not know the
true value of this immeasurable wealth. Is that right? Once
our human body is
gone, we fall into the three
evil paths. At some point, we are reborn as
humans, born in the time of the end of the
Dharma, when there is no more Dharma, and we will only
do evil. That is when it is wasted,
not that we can say, "
Enough of the Buddha's Dharma here, we can practice if we
like, or not, and practice in the
next life." That's not the case. Once the
human body is gone, it is lost through
karma.  It is very difficult for evil people to be reborn as
human beings, and even if they are reborn as human beings, it's not certain
they can practice the Buddha's teachings. Count the countless beings on your
fingers—how many
truly practice the Buddha's teachings? In
our village, how many
people practice the Buddha's teachings? And among those who practice the
Buddha's teachings, how many truly practice the correct Dharma?
Therefore, a wise person must know the
true value of the Buddha's teachings. Because that
is the Wish-Fulfilling Jewel. When
we hold this jewel, which is the Dharma, the
precepts of the Buddha, we can wish for
complete happiness because the
Dharma teaches us that if we want
this result, we must sow this seed—
isn't that a wish? But when
we lose this jewel, we are like the
poor and suffering, the very same—meaning we have no possessions,
right? Without possessions, from morning till
night we only think evil thoughts. Thinking evil thoughts leads
to karmic retribution. That's right, is
n't it? So, the more we
think and contemplate, the
more we realize that the Buddha is truly a
benevolent father.  No one among us can have
compassion like the Buddha,
who loves us, but truly
we are so foolish. We don't
take what is precious, we only take worthless things. We
seek things that we
have possessed for thousands of lifetimes, but we cannot
grasp them, can we? We are
not free; we are very suffering. We are controlled by
our feelings and emotions, we are controlled by them,
we are aware of
suffering but cannot escape
it. We are trapped in a
cage, a cage built
with our own feelings and emotions,
not those of others,
and we are bound by our own feelings and emotions.
The Buddha calls this
attachment and control, which means being bound and controlled, and
our own mind
is the enemy. That's right, is
n't it? And the Buddha only taught
us this: When we are free, then
we are not controlled by our
feelings and emotions, and we are
freed.  It and we are wrong to treat it
again. This is something only the Buddha
knows, and it is truly a blessing. For example,
a sick person receiving an injection—isn't it that
we are experiencing
a feeling of being bound?
Yes, we are sick, aren't we? A
person who isn't sick is
very comfortable. So, we are experiencing
that feeling, that we are sick,
and the Buddha pointed out that this disease is the
disease of greed. From this disease of greed,
it metastasizes, spreading
from one life
to another. The
greatest metastatic disease is the disease of
reincarnation. Life after life, we must
endure this in the cycle of reincarnation. This disease keeps spreading, and in every life, we are
happy. We say there is
joy, our joy. Who can
have complete joy? We plan to
set up a camp to make us
happy, but
we have the idea that to make us
happy, we are already suffering. We worry, we
worry, what will heaven do?  Worried about the rain, worried about the sun,
worried about failure, worried
that one will not be beautiful in the eyes of others,
even the joy itself is accompanied by
worry—that is suffering.
Remember, dear friends, nothing in
this world is without suffering. Everything
in this world that we think is
joyful actually has more suffering than joy. Is
n't that right? Suffering will far outweigh joy. There
is no thought of complete joy, not
even with possessions or anything else.
If we are practitioners, we will
think and contemplate whether there is truly joy in it. There is no
joy at
all. We always live in
fear, isn't that right? If the mind loves, it fears losing
love. If it
desires possessions, it fears losing possessions. Isn't that right? If it
desires relatives, it
fears losing relatives. Isn't that right? Therefore,
nothing is safe. Everything is suffering, everything is fragile,
extremely painful, incredibly painful. When we awaken to
this, we will
firmly grasp the teachings of the
Buddha. The Buddha taught this to
those who have...  With complete faith and devotion, one needs to
renounce worldly life and practice the Dharma. Some attain enlightenment and liberation in 7 days, others in
7 months, and some in 7 years.
If it takes longer, with diligent practice,
we are not too far from it, but
we are bound by
worldly pleasures. We say
we form clubs to
practice, using the Buddha's teachings to transform
karma and achieve happiness and peace in
worldly life. But that is not the true path; it
is merely
to make us believe that there is cause and effect, that
practice leads to liberation, that practice leads
to liberation. We should only
stop at this belief,
this one truth, and not keep seeking it
because it will only bring
us suffering, isn't that right, dear fellow
practitioners? Therefore, with
such an enlightened mind,
we should offer the relics of the Buddha,
hoping that we will be
truly enlightened, that enlightenment leads to
liberation. Why do we say
enlightenment leads to liberation?  That is, when we attain
enlightenment, we are liberated
from the mind that seeks worldly happiness—that
is liberation, is
n't it, dear fellow practitioners? We only hope to attain
this enlightenment, hoping that
we may attain
enlightenment for many lifetimes, seeking
supreme Bodhi without seeking worldly
happiness, the five desires, and suffering. Only then will we
truly be worthy of paying homage and offering to the relics. Offering to the relics, we
pray for
enlightenment and liberation from the thoughts of seeking
sensual pleasures and suffering. Is that possible?
Therefore, I repeat
this: offering to the Buddha's relics is to pray for
enlightenment, to be free from the
thoughts of seeking
worldly pleasures and suffering. Dear fellow
practitioners, with
such an enlightened mind, praying, offering, and
dedicating, surely for many lifetimes you
will gain wisdom and
escape from
these mundane, binding thoughts. These thoughts are extremely
binding, aren't they? I challenge you to
find that a
mind that has nothing in it
...  Is it true that we are bound by the burning desire for worldly happiness? We
cannot find
anything that can truly bring us happiness
except enlightenment, which is the
pursuit of liberation. Seeking sensual pleasure only
leads
to suffering. Therefore, we only need to
liberate ourselves from the mind and intellect that seeks
sensual pleasure; that is already great happiness. Those of you who are
devout, who have freed yourselves from the
mind and intellect that seeks happiness in
this cycle of reincarnation, we offer this to the
Buddha with sincere hearts,
bowing our heads in reverence to the Buddha. We pay homage to the Buddha, who, through countless lifetimes of practice, has sought the path to liberation from suffering.
[Music]
from the Buddha's teachings, we engrave the words of the Buddha's name in our hearts, and we, the
compassionate ones, descend to the
ocean of enlightenment, bringing happiness to all
beings. We respectfully
bow to our benevolent Father, our original teacher, Shakyamuni Buddha.
Today, on the
anniversary of the Buddha's passing into Nirvana,
we
turn to our
benevolent Father and express our gratitude for his grace.  His virtue,
throughout three countless eons, has been the
practice of compassion and self-sacrifice for us sentient beings,
sacrificing countless lives for
the sole purpose of
finding a way to relieve our suffering. We
sentient beings have probably
encountered Buddhas countless eons ago,
but we were
ignorant and did not know
that the
Buddha is the
one who can relieve our suffering, the one who can
bring us happiness, so
we did not
follow him. Because of this, we are
born
in this Age of Decline,
yet we are truly fortunate. As
long as the relics
of our
benevolent father remain in the world, we
still have the opportunity to be saved. Today, we
offer these flowers as a tribute to the
relics
of the Buddha's body.
We pray that we may receive blessings and karmic connections, attain enlightenment,
abandon thoughts of seeking
sensual pleasure and happiness in the three realms, and seek
suffering. May we develop
thoughts of seeking happiness, and
awaken
to the
truth of happiness and the truth of suffering,
so that we may escape the
bondage of
ignorance.  Following the path of
enlightenment that our benevolent Father, the Buddha,
has taught us,
we humbly beseech the Buddha to
witness and bless us, to
free us from deluded thoughts and false views, to return to right
view, to resolve to
walk the path of
liberation, so that we ourselves may lessen our
suffering and be free from suffering, and to follow the
example of our benevolent Father, Shakyamuni, to
benefit all sentient beings. With one heart, we
offer flowers as a
tribute to the assembly. We will all recite
his name together,
and then we
will offer flowers, continuing our recitation until the last person has offered a flower. Namo Tathagata, the Buddha, the
Venerable One, the Buddha ...
The Buddha, Namo, the
Tathagata, the Buddha, with a sincere wish to have the opportunity to attain enlightenment. Sentient beings, from countless eons of suffering and attachment, find it extremely difficult to
generate
a single thought of enlightenment. Indeed, for those who are enlightened, it is easy, but for those burdened by heavy attachment, the thought of enlightenment is
extremely difficult. We humbly ask the Buddha to support us
all.
Today,
in this Dharma assembly, we offer flowers to the
relics of the Buddha, hoping that we may
generate even a little bit of wisdom, a
little bit of enlightenment,
and have the
chance to escape the cycle of stagnation.  In this moment of suffering,
we humbly beg the Buddha to
support us and all sentient beings.
Today, I offer flowers as a
tribute to the
Buddha's relics. May the Buddha assist the assembly in
offering flowers and paying homage to the Buddha's relics. I
pray that I may
have sufficient merit and blessings, that the
Buddha may support me, and that I may
have sufficient
wisdom and strength to practice the Bodhisattva path to
enlightenment for myself and to transmit the Buddha
's teachings so that sentient
beings may attain enlightenment and escape the
cycle of greed, suffering, and samsara. May the
Buddha bear witness to
my prayer.
[Music]
K